It's the same term as Acharya Chandrakirti. Chandrakheti and Chandragomin is not a fully
ordered monk. He was an opasca, and it's called one opascan called Gomi. Gomi, I think he belongs
with one of the tradition of the sub-schools of the Caravana, but of course is Mahayana
practitioners.
Mahayana practitioners, very famous. He was a yogi of Avalokiteshara and Aras. In the teachings,
he had had the opportunity ever to talk to Avalokiteshara as person to person, or
Tara as person to person. He has such highly enlightened realization things. Also, very
famous scholars. He wrote so many books, teachings, and then there was a barigul. Also, he wrote a
very
famous book of the Sanskrit grammar. Grammar called Chandappa, again his name, Chandappa.
Very famous, which I had still used that. Very famous. There is this very very beautiful story.
He says that one time Chandappa was visiting Nalanda monastery universities, and when
Chandappa came to Nalanda monastery universities, at that time Chandappa was head master,
or the head abode of the Nalanda monastery universities. And then, of course, some
people know Chandappa is a great master. Many people don't know he is a great master. But then,
they
kind of had the rumors of great master Chandappa visiting in the Nalanda monastery universities.
That news, rumor, gradually reached to the Chandrakriti. And Chandrakriti came himself
asked me this way, and he said he asked Chandappa Chandappa Chandappa Chandappa Chandappa Chandappa
, "Are you the Chandappa Chandappa Chandappa?" He said, "Yes, that was I am known in the world."
So, when he said that, "Oh, such a great master visited on this monastery. I don't want to release.
You come like this way. I'd like to make full reception to you. To you, could you go with
time being? And I will edit the reception, and then you come back." And Chandappa called me like,
"No, this and that things." But finally, I gave it to him. And he said, "I am not fully ordered
more.
Do you all fully order more? How you can make reception to me? This is not a right to them."
And then, Chandappa Chandappa, they thought short time, he said, "I have checked me. Don't worry.
I will do it. I will make perfect." So, then they acted. So, he went for a while, whatever,
and then made the big receptions. And Chanda Gomme, they put on the chariot, and all the monks and
everyone was making big receptions. Right in front of Chanda Gomme, there is a big stone stage of
Mejishi. Mejishi, they put that. So, in a way, they are making the reception for the Mejishi
stages. And Chanda Gomme is holding that anyway, holding that, and then they moved. But while Ch
anda
Gomme is in the chariot, he feels so devoted to the Mejishi. And he prays the Mejishi,
simultaneously, this big, long, beautiful, really precious to Mejishi. And this stone stage,
in this technique, he said that, "The stone stage, you turn the neck like this. You taste really, I
have that color?"
And then, everyone said, "The stage is left like that." So, it's called yami-dyum, and everybody
said,
corked neck, our locally, sorry, corked neck, corked neck Mejishi, yami-dyum.
This was one of the trade-offs of the Nala Monastry University. So, then they came there,
and Chanda Gomme came there. But then, Chanda Gomme is one of the great master of the mind-own
schools.
And Chanda Gedi is one of the great masters of the Prasan Gama Deva schools. Now, they started
debating,
the teachers, they started debating. One took the position of the mind-own school, and the other
told the Prasan Gama Deva. Oh, Madam Gama schools. And they started debating. Debating, debating,
debating. He said, "The debate went on and on over 12 years." And they couldn't make this
difference.
And then, when they're debating, he said, looks like, I mean, Chanda Gedi is a more sharper mind,
sharper mind. And when he's debating, it looks like Chanda Gomme almost lost, lost debate. But then
,
they stopped at that time. And the next day, they started, Chanda Gomme has more to debate,
and more things to put. And then, in the teaching, he said, "It must be this Chanda Gomme must have
someone who's teaching, and stopped at something, totally, totally must be, must be." So, then,
well, they finish the debate. And Chanda Gomme went his cabin, and Chanda Gedi went back to his
room, whatever that. Then, and then, Chanda Gomme thought, it must have someone really tutoring,
otherwise, every day, Lusla is going to lose. But the next day, he has all fresh things to debate.
And so, couldn't that, I'm going to check. Is anybody talking to him? And he went,
and they, sneakily went in the window of the door, sneakily. Inside, there is,
our guru, Kritishwara, Stone State, he is teaching as, like, father to the son. He said, like,
even pointing this and that, like this, pointing to Chanda Gomme, everything. And then,
Chanda Gedi said, in his teaching, he said, "Chanda Gomme, open the door immediately,
or break his kindness, father. I never thought you have the discrimination." So, he said to our
local Chanda, "I never thought you have the discriminations." He said, "I have not discrimination.
He just asked me coaching, so I'm teaching him." And then, also in teaching, he said, that, like,
Pingal, the Chanda, our location of Chanda is the Pingal Mountain State, just a stop right there.
So, the stage becomes like this, like this, this. And this is also one of the treasures of the,
of the Nalanda Monastery. So, therefore, and then, later on, even these villagers, and the cowboys,
started talking, started, gianting the abilities of these great two masters. Everybody kind of
started joking, joking. One said this, other said this, and they started joining that. So, in this
teaching, see, there's nothing really concrete that you can't, it's just a border, so I highly
realized that. That tells the Mahanun school, you know, all this, how special they are. It's not
really, they're a subtle point, they just kind of talk in that, but there's, generally, it's all
special, special. So, that's the greatest story of the, of the Miwa school. The Chanda,
Chanda Gomu is one of the great famous masters in Buddhism.